
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# QuAnTeTrack

<!-- badges: start -->

[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/QuAnTeTrack)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=QuAnTeTrack)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/MacroFunUV/QuAnTeTrack/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/MacroFunUV/QuAnTeTrack/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
<!-- badges: end -->

Studying fossil vertebrate trackways is crucial as they provide valuable
insights into the behavior, locomotion, and environmental interactions
of extinct species, offering a dynamic perspective on prehistoric life
that skeletal remains alone cannot. Here, I present **QuAnTeTrack**, an
integrated tool designed to **semi-automatically extract
palaeobiological information** by digitizing footprint and trackway
coordinates and analyzing them within the R environment.

QuAnTeTrack includes functions to read footprint coordinates and
trackways stored as **.TPS files**, transforming them into **“track”
objects**. These objects can be used to **calculate and plot key
parameters** such as **turning angles, trackway distances, step lengths,
sinuosity, and straightness**. Additional functions enable the
**quantification of velocity** and the testing of scenarios involving
**acceleration, deceleration, or stable velocity**, as well as comparing
velocity differences between tracks.

The tool also supports **visualizing movement patterns**, plotting
tracks according to velocity. Furthermore, **QuAnTeTrack facilitates the
testing of hypotheses related to gregarious behavior or predatory
events**. For interactions involving multiple tetrapods, such as **group
movement or predation**, trackways are expected to covary more
significantly and present fewer intersections than those generated by
independent events. QuAnTeTrack estimates this by computing **Frechet
and Dynamic Time Warping (DTW) trajectory similarity metrics** and
**quantifying track intersections**. These metrics are evaluated through
**random simulation procedures** to determine how actual trackway
similarities differ from randomly generated ones under various
scenarios, including **geographical constraints and resource
directionality**.

## Installation

You can install the development version of QuAnTeTrack from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("MacroFunUV/QuAnTeTrack")
```

## Vignettes
